join.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Opportunities
---

## MSc + PhD position

[Joining the lab through the ASCDT MSc+PhD route (UK/EU)](https://www.wychowlab.org/blog/2022/07/22/join-ASCDT-MSc.html) Deadline: 15 August 2022

## Undergraduate researchers

We support applications through the [Undergraduate Research Support Scheme (URSS)](https://warwick.ac.uk/services/skills/urss/) if you are doing a science-based undergraduate course at Warwick, and we are open to applications across the [whole faculty](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/). URSS will give you the chance to lead your own summer project hosted in our lab for 6-10 weeks, as well as carry out a public engagement project. Deadlines are usually in February. Please contact Ying by mid-January to discuss if interested.

## Prospective applications

We welcome contact from prospective students and postdocs who are looking to do gound-breaking research at the interface of biology, physics, and chemistry. We are committed to supporting and promoting equality, diversity, and inclusion. We especially encourage applications from underrepresented groups in science.

Please review the information below before [contact](mailto:w.YING.chow@warwick.ac.uk).

### Postgraduate applicants
- Please ensure you meet the [departmental entry requirements](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/admissions/postgraduate/phdormsc/).
- Please check the information on [fees and funding](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/admissions/postgraduate/phd/eligibility).
    - Funding is available specifically for [students who are from under-represented groups in physics (IoP)](https://www.iop.org/about/support-grants/bell-burnell-fund).
    - While funding is often restricted to students who have "home" status, EU and international students with an outstanding track record can apply to the [Chancellor's International Scholarship](https://warwick.ac.uk/services/dc/schols_fund/scholarships_and_funding/chancellors_int).

### Postdoctoral applicants
- We are looking for candidates with experience in either:
    - cell biology, biochemistry, molecular biology, and related fields; or
    - NMR, especially solid-state NMR
- We will support fellowship applications for
    - UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)
    - Royal Society [Newton International Fellowships](https://royalsociety.org/grants-schemes-awards/grants/newton-international/)
    - European Commission [Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions](https://marie-sklodowska-curie-actions.ec.europa.eu/actions/postdoctoral-fellowships)
    - Wellcome Trust [Early Career Awards](https://wellcome.org/grant-funding/schemes/early-career-awards)
    - [Leverhulme Trust](https://www.leverhulme.ac.uk/early-career-fellowships)
- We are also open to applications from candidates who identify a [suitable funding opportunity](https://ecrcentral.org/fundings) from other sources.
- Please ensure contact is made with sufficient advanced notice for fellowships, ideally no less than a few months before the closing date.
- From time to time, funded positions will be available for specific topics.


## Resources

- [How to applying for graduate studies in the Department of Physics at Warwick](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/admissions/postgraduate/resourcesforapplicants/)
- [Step-by-step guide to applying to Warwick for graduate studies](https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply/research/)
- Departmental page for [prospective postgraduate students](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/admissions/postgraduate/)
- University page on [Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion](https://warwick.ac.uk/services/equalops/)
- The Warwick [Institute of Advanced Study](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/ias/postdocs/) provides a network and community for early-career researchers, including postdocs.

### Doctoral Training Centres
- [Analytical Science](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/as/)
- [Midlands Integrative Biosciences Training Partnership](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/mibtp/)
- [MRC Doctoral Training Partnership](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/med/study/mrcdtp)

Commit message:

updated with the UG vacation

join.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Opportunities
---

## MSc + PhD position

[Joining the lab through the ASCDT MSc+PhD route (UK/EU)](https://www.wychowlab.org/blog/2022/07/22/join-ASCDT-MSc.html) Deadline: 15 August 2022

## Undergraduate researchers

We support applications through the [Undergraduate Research Support Scheme (URSS)](https://warwick.ac.uk/services/skills/urss/) if you are doing a science-based undergraduate course at Warwick, and we are open to applications across the [whole faculty](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/). URSS will give you the chance to lead your own summer project hosted in our lab for 6-10 weeks, as well as carry out a public engagement project. Deadlines are usually in February. Please contact Ying by mid-January to discuss if interested.

There is some [additional information on Vacation Projects from the department that is relevant to undergraduates in Physics](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/current/teach/general/vac/).

## Prospective applications

We welcome contact from prospective students and postdocs who are looking to do gound-breaking research at the interface of biology, physics, and chemistry. We are committed to supporting and promoting equality, diversity, and inclusion. We especially encourage applications from underrepresented groups in science.

Please review the information below before [contact](mailto:w.YING.chow@warwick.ac.uk).

### Postgraduate applicants
- Please ensure you meet the [departmental entry requirements](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/admissions/postgraduate/phdormsc/).
- Please check the information on [fees and funding](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/admissions/postgraduate/phd/eligibility).
    - Funding is available specifically for [students who are from under-represented groups in physics (IoP)](https://www.iop.org/about/support-grants/bell-burnell-fund).
    - While funding is often restricted to students who have "home" status, EU and international students with an outstanding track record can apply to the [Chancellor's International Scholarship](https://warwick.ac.uk/services/dc/schols_fund/scholarships_and_funding/chancellors_int).

### Postdoctoral applicants
- We are looking for candidates with experience in either:
    - cell biology, biochemistry, molecular biology, and related fields; or
    - NMR, especially solid-state NMR
- We will support fellowship applications for
    - UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)
    - Royal Society [Newton International Fellowships](https://royalsociety.org/grants-schemes-awards/grants/newton-international/)
    - European Commission [Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions](https://marie-sklodowska-curie-actions.ec.europa.eu/actions/postdoctoral-fellowships)
    - Wellcome Trust [Early Career Awards](https://wellcome.org/grant-funding/schemes/early-career-awards)
    - [Leverhulme Trust](https://www.leverhulme.ac.uk/early-career-fellowships)
- We are also open to applications from candidates who identify a [suitable funding opportunity](https://ecrcentral.org/fundings) from other sources.
- Please ensure contact is made with sufficient advanced notice for fellowships, ideally no less than a few months before the closing date.
- From time to time, funded positions will be available for specific topics.


## Resources

- [How to applying for graduate studies in the Department of Physics at Warwick](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/admissions/postgraduate/resourcesforapplicants/)
- [Step-by-step guide to applying to Warwick for graduate studies](https://warwick.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply/research/)
- Departmental page for [prospective postgraduate students](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/physics/admissions/postgraduate/)
- University page on [Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion](https://warwick.ac.uk/services/equalops/)
- The Warwick [Institute of Advanced Study](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/ias/postdocs/) provides a network and community for early-career researchers, including postdocs.

### Doctoral Training Centres
- [Analytical Science](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/as/)
- [Midlands Integrative Biosciences Training Partnership](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/mibtp/)
- [MRC Doctoral Training Partnership](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/med/study/mrcdtp)
