README.md, before:

Research Group Web Site Template
================================

This is a [Jekyll][]-based Web site based on the work of the [sampa][sampa] group at the University of Washington. It is forked from [this repository][uwsamparepo].

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License][license].

[sampa]: http://sampa.cs.washington.edu/
[license]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/
[uwsamparepo]: https://github.com/uwsampa/research-group-web

Modifications
--------
- removed "faculty" as being used for a single-PI lab website
- reduced number of columns for project cards
- tweaked column width for news
- used Mendeley to export bibtex
- used [pylatexenc][pylatexenc] to convert LaTeX-encoded parts of website back to text
- added [favicon generated from fontawesome](https://gauger.io/fonticon/)
- moved from fontawesome 4 to 6, originally for the ORCID logo, but possibly now more for the fun effects


[pylatexenc]: https://pylatexenc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/latex2text/

Features
--------

* Thanks to [Jekyll][], content is just text files. So even faculty should be able to figure it out.
* Publications list generated from BibTeX.
* Personnel list. Organize your professors, students, staff, and alumni.
* Combined news stream and blog posts.
* Easily extensible navigation bar.
* Responsive (mobile-ready) design based on [Bootstrap][].

[Bootstrap]: http://getbootstrap.com/


Setup
-----

1. Install the dependencies. You will need [Python][], [bibble][] (`pip install bibble`), and [Jekyll][] (`gem install jekyll`).
2. [Fork][] this repository on GitHub.
3. Clone the fork to your own machine: `git clone git@github.com:yourgroup/research-group-web.git`.
4. Add an "upstream" remote for the original repository so you can stay abreast of bugfixes: `git remote add upstream https://github.com/uwsampa/research-group-web.git`.
5. Customize. Start with the `_config.yml` file, where you enter the name of the site and its URL.
6. Type `make` to build the site and then run `make serve` to view your site.
7. Keep adding content. See below for instructions for each of the various sections.
8. Periodically pull from the upstream repository: `git pull upstream master`.

[Python]: https://www.python.org/
[Fork]: https://github.com/uwsampa/research-group-web/fork


Publication List
----------------

The list of publications is in `bib/pubs.bib`. Typing `make` will generate `pubs.html`, which contains a pretty, sorted HTML-formatted list of papers. The public page, `publications.html`, also has a link to download the original BibTeX.


News Items and Blog Posts
-------------------------

For both long-form blog posts and short news updates, we use Jekyll's blogging system. To post a new item of either type, you create a file in the `_posts` directory using the naming convention `YYYY-MM-DD-title-for-url.md`. The date part of the filename always matters; the title part is currently only used for full blog posts (but is still required for news updates).

The file must begin with [YAML front matter][yfm]. For news updates, use this:

    ---
    layout: post
    shortnews: true
    ---

For full blog posts, use this format:

    ---
    layout: post
    title:  "Some Great Title Here"
    ---

And concoct a page title for your post. The body of the post goes after the `---` in either case.

You can also customize the icon that is displayed on the news feed. By default it's `newspaper-o`. We use icons from the [FontAwesome][fa] icon set.

[yfm]: http://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter/
[fa]: http://fontawesome.io/icons/

Projects
--------

To create a project, just create a markdown file in the `_projects` folder. Here are the things you can put in the YAML frontmatter:

- `title:` The project title.
- `notitle:` Set this to `true` if you don't want a title displayed on the project card. Optional.
- `description:` The text shown in the project card. It supports markdown.
- `people:` The people working on the project. This is a list of keys from the `_data/people.yml` file.
- `layout: project` This sets the layout of the actual project page. It should be set to `project`.
- `image:` The URL of an image for the project. This is shown on both the project page and the project card. Optional.
- `last-updated:` Date in the format of `YYYY-MM-DD`. The project cards are sorted by this, most recent first.
- `status: inactive` Set this to `inactive` if don't want the project to appear on the front page. Just ignore it otherwise.
- `link:` Set this to an external URL if this project has a page somewhere else on the web. If you don't have a `link:`, then the content of this markdown file (below the YAML frontmatter) will be this project's page.
- `no-link: true` Set this if you just don't want a project page for your project.

Personnel
---------

People are listed in a [YAML][] file in `_data/people.yml`. You can list the name, link, bio, and role of each person. Roles (e.g., "Faculty", "Staff", and "Students") are defined in `_config.yml`.

[YAML]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML


Building
--------

The requirements for building the site are:

* [Jekyll][]: run `gem install jekyll`
* [bibble][]: available on `pip`
* ssh and rsync, only if you want to deploy directly.

`make` compiles the bibliography and the website content to the `_site`
directory. To preview the site, run `jekyll serve`` and head to
http://0.0.0.0:5000.


Deploying to Your Sever
-----------------------

To set up deployments, edit the Makefile and look for the lines where `HOST` and `DIR` are defined. Change these to the host where your HTML files should be copied to.

To upload a new version of the site via rsync over ssh, type `make deploy`. A web hook does this automatically when you push to GitHub. Be aware that the Makefile is configured to have rsync delete stray files from the destination directory.

[Jekyll]: http://jekyllrb.com/
[bibble]: https://github.com/sampsyo/bibble/

Commit message:

updated README with link to the website

README.md, after:

Website for Wing Ying Chow's Lab at University of Warwick, UK
=============================================================

[https://www.wychowlab.org/](https://www.wychowlab.org/)


Research Group Web Site Template
================================

This is a [Jekyll][]-based Web site based on the work of the [sampa][sampa] group at the University of Washington. It is forked from [this repository][uwsamparepo].

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License][license].

[sampa]: http://sampa.cs.washington.edu/
[license]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/
[uwsamparepo]: https://github.com/uwsampa/research-group-web

Modifications
--------
- removed "faculty" as being used for a single-PI lab website
- reduced number of columns for project cards
- tweaked column width for news
- used Mendeley to export bibtex
- used [pylatexenc][pylatexenc] to convert LaTeX-encoded parts of website back to text
- added [favicon generated from fontawesome](https://gauger.io/fonticon/)
- moved from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) 4 to 6, originally for the ORCID logo, but possibly now more for the fun effects

[pylatexenc]: https://pylatexenc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/latex2text/

Features
--------

* Thanks to [Jekyll][], content is just text files. So even faculty should be able to figure it out.
* Publications list generated from BibTeX.
* Personnel list. Organize your professors, students, staff, and alumni.
* Combined news stream and blog posts.
* Easily extensible navigation bar.
* Responsive (mobile-ready) design based on [Bootstrap][].

[Bootstrap]: http://getbootstrap.com/


Setup
-----

1. Install the dependencies. You will need [Python][], [bibble][] (`pip install bibble`), and [Jekyll][] (`gem install jekyll`).
2. [Fork][] this repository on GitHub.
3. Clone the fork to your own machine: `git clone git@github.com:yourgroup/research-group-web.git`.
4. Add an "upstream" remote for the original repository so you can stay abreast of bugfixes: `git remote add upstream https://github.com/uwsampa/research-group-web.git`.
5. Customize. Start with the `_config.yml` file, where you enter the name of the site and its URL.
6. Type `make` to build the site and then run `make serve` to view your site.
7. Keep adding content. See below for instructions for each of the various sections.
8. Periodically pull from the upstream repository: `git pull upstream master`.

[Python]: https://www.python.org/
[Fork]: https://github.com/uwsampa/research-group-web/fork


Publication List
----------------

The list of publications is in `bib/pubs.bib`. Typing `make` will generate `pubs.html`, which contains a pretty, sorted HTML-formatted list of papers. The public page, `publications.html`, also has a link to download the original BibTeX.


News Items and Blog Posts
-------------------------

For both long-form blog posts and short news updates, we use Jekyll's blogging system. To post a new item of either type, you create a file in the `_posts` directory using the naming convention `YYYY-MM-DD-title-for-url.md`. The date part of the filename always matters; the title part is currently only used for full blog posts (but is still required for news updates).

The file must begin with [YAML front matter][yfm]. For news updates, use this:

    ---
    layout: post
    shortnews: true
    ---

For full blog posts, use this format:

    ---
    layout: post
    title:  "Some Great Title Here"
    ---

And concoct a page title for your post. The body of the post goes after the `---` in either case.

You can also customize the icon that is displayed on the news feed. By default it's `newspaper-o`. We use icons from the [FontAwesome][fa] icon set.

[yfm]: http://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter/
[fa]: http://fontawesome.io/icons/

Projects
--------

To create a project, just create a markdown file in the `_projects` folder. Here are the things you can put in the YAML frontmatter:

- `title:` The project title.
- `notitle:` Set this to `true` if you don't want a title displayed on the project card. Optional.
- `description:` The text shown in the project card. It supports markdown.
- `people:` The people working on the project. This is a list of keys from the `_data/people.yml` file.
- `layout: project` This sets the layout of the actual project page. It should be set to `project`.
- `image:` The URL of an image for the project. This is shown on both the project page and the project card. Optional.
- `last-updated:` Date in the format of `YYYY-MM-DD`. The project cards are sorted by this, most recent first.
- `status: inactive` Set this to `inactive` if don't want the project to appear on the front page. Just ignore it otherwise.
- `link:` Set this to an external URL if this project has a page somewhere else on the web. If you don't have a `link:`, then the content of this markdown file (below the YAML frontmatter) will be this project's page.
- `no-link: true` Set this if you just don't want a project page for your project.

Personnel
---------

People are listed in a [YAML][] file in `_data/people.yml`. You can list the name, link, bio, and role of each person. Roles (e.g., "Faculty", "Staff", and "Students") are defined in `_config.yml`.

[YAML]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML


Building
--------

The requirements for building the site are:

* [Jekyll][]: run `gem install jekyll`
* [bibble][]: available on `pip`
* ssh and rsync, only if you want to deploy directly.

`make` compiles the bibliography and the website content to the `_site`
directory. To preview the site, run `jekyll serve`` and head to
http://0.0.0.0:5000.


Deploying to Your Sever
-----------------------

To set up deployments, edit the Makefile and look for the lines where `HOST` and `DIR` are defined. Change these to the host where your HTML files should be copied to.

To upload a new version of the site via rsync over ssh, type `make deploy`. A web hook does this automatically when you push to GitHub. Be aware that the Makefile is configured to have rsync delete stray files from the destination directory.

[Jekyll]: http://jekyllrb.com/
[bibble]: https://github.com/sampsyo/bibble/
